  A fully differential calculation in perturbative quantum chromodynamics is
presented for the production of massive photon pairs at hadron colliders. All
next-to-leading order perturbative contributions from quark-antiquark,
gluon-(anti)quark, and gluon-gluon subprocesses are included, as well as
all-orders resummation of initial-state gluon radiation valid at
next-to-next-to-leading logarithmic accuracy. The region of phase space is
specified in which the calculation is most reliable. Good agreement is
demonstrated with data from the Fermilab Tevatron, and predictions are made for
more detailed tests with CDF and DO data. Predictions are shown for
distributions of diphoton pairs produced at the energy of the Large Hadron
Collider (LHC). Distributions of the diphoton pairs from the decay of a Higgs
boson are contrasted with those produced from QCD processes at the LHC, showing
that enhanced sensitivity to the signal can be obtained with judicious
selection of events.
  The evolution of Earth-Moon system is described by the dark matter field
fluid model proposed in the Meeting of Division of Particle and Field 2004,
American Physical Society. The current behavior of the Earth-Moon system agrees
with this model very well and the general pattern of the evolution of the
Moon-Earth system described by this model agrees with geological and fossil
evidence. The closest distance of the Moon to Earth was about 259000 km at 4.5
billion years ago, which is far beyond the Roche's limit. The result suggests
that the tidal friction may not be the primary cause for the evolution of the
Earth-Moon system. The average dark matter field fluid constant derived from
Earth-Moon system data is 4.39 x 10^(-22) s^(-1)m^(-1). This model predicts
that the Mars's rotation is also slowing with the angular acceleration rate
about -4.38 x 10^(-22) rad s^(-2).
  We show that a determinant of Stirling cycle numbers counts unlabeled acyclic
single-source automata. The proof involves a bijection from these automata to
certain marked lattice paths and a sign-reversing involution to evaluate the
determinant.
A rather non-standard quantum representation of the canonical commutation
relations of quantum mechanics systems, known as the polymer representation has
gained some attention in recent years, due to its possible relation with Planck
scale physics. In particular, this approach has been followed in a symmetric
sector of loop quantum gravity known as loop quantum cosmology. Here we explore
different aspects of the relation between the ordinary Schroedinger theory and
the polymer description. The paper has two parts. In the first one, we derive
the polymer quantum mechanics starting from the ordinary Schroedinger theory
and show that the polymer description arises as an appropriate limit. In the
second part we consider the continuum limit of this theory, namely, the reverse
process in which one starts from the discrete theory and tries to recover back
the ordinary Schroedinger quantum mechanics. We consider several examples of
interest, including the harmonic oscillator, the free particle and a simple
cosmological model.
  A general formulation was developed to represent material models for
applications in dynamic loading. Numerical methods were devised to calculate
response to shock and ramp compression, and ramp decompression, generalizing
previous solutions for scalar equations of state. The numerical methods were
found to be flexible and robust, and matched analytic results to a high
accuracy. The basic ramp and shock solution methods were coupled to solve for
composite deformation paths, such as shock-induced impacts, and shock
interactions with a planar interface between different materials. These
calculations capture much of the physics of typical material dynamics
experiments, without requiring spatially-resolving simulations. Example
calculations were made of loading histories in metals, illustrating the effects
of plastic work on the temperatures induced in quasi-isentropic and
shock-release experiments, and the effect of a phase transition.
  We discuss the results from the combined IRAC and MIPS c2d Spitzer Legacy
observations of the Serpens star-forming region. In particular we present a set
of criteria for isolating bona fide young stellar objects, YSO's, from the
extensive background contamination by extra-galactic objects. We then discuss
the properties of the resulting high confidence set of YSO's. We find 235 such
objects in the 0.85 deg^2 field that was covered with both IRAC and MIPS. An
additional set of 51 lower confidence YSO's outside this area is identified
from the MIPS data combined with 2MASS photometry. We describe two sets of
results, color-color diagrams to compare our observed source properties with
those of theoretical models for star/disk/envelope systems and our own modeling
of the subset of our objects that appear to be star+disks. These objects
exhibit a very wide range of disk properties, from many that can be fit with
actively accreting disks to some with both passive disks and even possibly
debris disks. We find that the luminosity function of YSO's in Serpens extends
down to at least a few x .001 Lsun or lower for an assumed distance of 260 pc.
The lower limit may be set by our inability to distinguish YSO's from
extra-galactic sources more than by the lack of YSO's at very low luminosities.
A spatial clustering analysis shows that the nominally less-evolved YSO's are
more highly clustered than the later stages and that the background
extra-galactic population can be fit by the same two-point correlation function
as seen in other extra-galactic studies. We also present a table of matches
between several previous infrared and X-ray studies of the Serpens YSO
population and our Spitzer data set.
  Partial cubes are isometric subgraphs of hypercubes. Structures on a graph
defined by means of semicubes, and Djokovi\'{c}'s and Winkler's relations play
an important role in the theory of partial cubes. These structures are employed
in the paper to characterize bipartite graphs and partial cubes of arbitrary
dimension. New characterizations are established and new proofs of some known
results are given.
 Results from spectroscopic observations of the Intermediate Polar (IP) EX Hya
in quiescence during 1991 and 2001 are presented. Spin-modulated radial
velocities consistent with an outer disc origin were detected for the first
time in an IP. The spin pulsation was modulated with velocities near ~500-600
km/s. These velocities are consistent with those of material circulating at the
outer edge of the accretion disc, suggesting corotation of the accretion
curtain with material near the Roche lobe radius. Furthermore, spin Doppler
tomograms have revealed evidence of the accretion curtain emission extending
from velocities of ~500 km/s to ~1000 km/s. These findings have confirmed the
theoretical model predictions of King & Wynn (1999), Belle et al. (2002) and
Norton et al. (2004) for EX Hya, which predict large accretion curtains that
extend to a distance close to the Roche lobe radius in this system. Evidence
for overflow stream of material falling onto the magnetosphere was observed,
confirming the result of Belle et al. (2005) that disc overflow in EX Hya is
present during quiescence as well as outburst. It appears that the hbeta and
hgamma spin radial velocities originated from the rotation of the funnel at the
outer disc edge, while those of halpha were produced due to the flow of
material along the field lines far from the white dwarf (narrow component) and
close to the white dwarf (broad-base component), in agreement with the
accretion curtain model.
  We give a prescription for how to compute the Callias index, using as
regulator an exponential function. We find agreement with old results in all
odd dimensions. We show that the problem of computing the dimension of the
moduli space of self-dual strings can be formulated as an index problem in
even-dimensional (loop-)space. We think that the regulator used in this Letter
can be applied to this index problem The shape of the hadronic form factor f+(q2) in the decay D0 --> K- e+ nue
has been measured in a model independent analysis and compared with theoretical
calculations. We use 75 fb(-1) of data recorded by the BABAR detector at the
PEPII electron-positron collider. The corresponding decay branching fraction,
relative to the decay D0 --> K- pi+, has also been measured to be RD = BR(D0
--> K- e+ nue)/BR(D0 --> K- pi+) = 0.927 +/- 0.007 +/- 0.012. From these
results, and using the present world average value for BR(D0 --> K- pi+), the
normalization of the form factor at q2=0 is determined to be f+(0)=0.727 +/-
0.007 +/- 0.005 +/- 0.007 where the uncertainties are statistical, systematic,
and from external inputs, respectively.
  Spatiotemporal pattern formation in a product-activated enzymic reaction at
high enzyme concentrations is investigated. Stochastic simulations show that
catalytic turnover cycles of individual enzymes can become coherent and that
complex wave patterns of molecular synchronization can develop. The analysis
based on the mean-field approximation indicates that the observed patterns
result from the presence of Hopf and wave bifurcations in the considered
system.
  We present Lie group integrators for nonlinear stochastic differential
equations with non-commutative vector fields whose solution evolves on a smooth
finite dimensional manifold. Given a Lie group action that generates transport
along the manifold, we pull back the stochastic flow on the manifold to the Lie
group via the action, and subsequently pull back the flow to the corresponding
Lie algebra via the exponential map. We construct an approximation to the
stochastic flow in the Lie algebra via closed operations and then push back to
the Lie group and then to the manifold, thus ensuring our approximation lies in
the manifold. We call such schemes stochastic Munthe-Kaas methods after their
deterministic counterparts. We also present stochastic Lie group integration
schemes based on Castell--Gaines methods. These involve using an underlying
ordinary differential integrator to approximate the flow generated by a
truncated stochastic exponential Lie series. They become stochastic Lie group
integrator schemes if we use Munthe-Kaas methods as the underlying ordinary
differential integrator. Further, we show that some Castell--Gaines methods are
uniformly more accurate than the corresponding stochastic Taylor schemes.
Lastly we demonstrate our methods by simulating the dynamics of a free rigid
body such as a satellite and an autonomous underwater vehicle both perturbed by
two independent multiplicative stochastic noise processes.
  The very nature of the solar chromosphere, its structuring and dynamics,
remains far from being properly understood, in spite of intensive research.
Here we point out the potential of chromospheric observations at millimeter
wavelengths to resolve this long-standing problem. Computations carried out
with a sophisticated dynamic model of the solar chromosphere due to Carlsson
and Stein demonstrate that millimeter emission is extremely sensitive to
dynamic processes in the chromosphere and the appropriate wavelengths to look
for dynamic signatures are in the range 0.8-5.0 mm. The model also suggests
that high resolution observations at mm wavelengths, as will be provided by
ALMA, will have the unique property of reacting to both the hot and the cool
gas, and thus will have the potential of distinguishing between rival models of
the solar atmosphere. Thus, initial results obtained from the observations of
the quiet Sun at 3.5 mm with the BIMA array (resolution of 12 arcsec) reveal
significant oscillations with amplitudes of 50-150 K and frequencies of 1.5-8
mHz with a tendency toward short-period oscillations in internetwork and longer
periods in network regions. However higher spatial resolution, such as that
provided by ALMA, is required for a clean separation between the features
within the solar atmosphere and for an adequate comparison with the output of
the comprehensive dynamic simulations.
  The formation of quasi-2D spin-wave waveforms in longitudinally magnetized
stripes of ferrimagnetic film was observed by using time- and space-resolved
Brillouin light scattering technique. In the linear regime it was found that
the confinement decreases the amplitude of dynamic magnetization near the
lateral stripe edges. Thus, the so-called effective dipolar pinning of dynamic
magnetization takes place at the edges.
  In the nonlinear regime a new stable spin wave packet propagating along a
waveguide structure, for which both transversal instability and interaction
with the side walls of the waveguide are important was observed. The
experiments and a numerical simulation of the pulse evolution show that the
shape of the formed waveforms and their behavior are strongly influenced by the
confinement.
  We present recent advances in understanding of the ground and excited states
of the electron-phonon coupled systems obtained by novel methods of
Diagrammatic Monte Carlo and Stochastic Optimization, which enable the
approximation-free calculation of Matsubara Green function in imaginary times
and perform unbiased analytic continuation to real frequencies. We present
exact numeric results on the ground state properties, Lehmann spectral function
and optical conductivity of different strongly correlated systems: Frohlich
polaron, Rashba-Pekar exciton-polaron, pseudo Jahn-Teller polaron, exciton, and
interacting with phonons hole in the t-J model.
  Zero-divisors (ZDs) derived by Cayley-Dickson Process (CDP) from
N-dimensional hypercomplex numbers (N a power of 2, at least 4) can represent
singularities and, as N approaches infinite, fractals -- and thereby,scale-free
networks. Any integer greater than 8 and not a power of 2 generates a
meta-fractal or "Sky" when it is interpreted as the "strut constant" (S) of an
ensemble of octahedral vertex figures called "Box-Kites" (the fundamental
building blocks of ZDs). Remarkably simple bit-manipulation rules or "recipes"
provide tools for transforming one fractal genus into others within the context
of Wolfram's Class 4 complexity.
  We describe a peculiar fine structure acquired by the in-plane optical phonon
at the Gamma-point in graphene when it is brought into resonance with one of
the inter-Landau-level transitions in this material. The effect is most
pronounced when this lattice mode (associated with the G-band in graphene Raman
spectrum) is in resonance with inter-Landau-level transitions 0 -> (+,1) and
(-,1) -> 0, at a magnetic field B_0 ~ 30 T. It can be used to measure the
strength of the electron-phonon coupling directly, and its filling-factor
dependence can be used experimentally to detect circularly polarized lattice
modes.
We investigate the effect of tuning the phonon energy on the correlation
effects in models of electron-phonon interactions using DMFT. In the regime
where itinerant electrons, instantaneous electron-phonon driven correlations
and static distortions compete on similar energy scales, we find several
interesting results including (1) A crossover from band to Mott behavior in the
spectral function, leading to hybrid band/Mott features in the spectral
function for phonon frequencies slightly larger than the band width. (2) Since
the optical conductivity depends sensitively on the form of the spectral
function, we show that such a regime should be observable through the low
frequency form of the optical conductivity. (3) The resistivity has a double
kondo peak arrangement
  We show that crystal can trap a broad (x, x', y, y', E) distribution of
particles and channel it preserved with a high precision. This sampled-and-hold
distribution can be steered by a bent crystal for analysis downstream. In
simulations for the 7 TeV Large Hadron Collider, a crystal adapted to the
accelerator lattice traps 90% of diffractively scattered protons emerging from
the interaction point with a divergence 100 times the critical angle. We set
the criterion for crystal adaptation improving efficiency ~100-fold. Proton
angles are preserved in crystal transmission with accuracy down to 0.1
microrad. This makes feasible a crystal application for measuring very forward
protons at the LHC.
  We analyze the possibility of probing non-standard neutrino interactions
(NSI, for short) through the detection of neutrinos produced in a future
galactic supernova (SN).We consider the effect of NSI on the neutrino
propagation through the SN envelope within a three-neutrino framework, paying
special attention to the inclusion of NSI-induced resonant conversions, which
may take place in the most deleptonised inner layers. We study the possibility
of detecting NSI effects in a Megaton water Cherenkov detector, either through
modulation effects in the $\bar\nu_e$ spectrum due to (i) the passage of shock
waves through the SN envelope, (ii) the time dependence of the electron
fraction and (iii) the Earth matter effects; or, finally, through the possible
detectability of the neutronization $\nu_e$ burst. We find that the $\bar\nu_e$
spectrum can exhibit dramatic features due to the internal NSI-induced resonant
conversion. This occurs for non-universal NSI strengths of a few %, and for
very small flavor-changing NSI above a few$\times 10^{-5}$.
  We performed a rigorous theoretical convergence analysis of the discrete
dipole approximation (DDA). We prove that errors in any measured quantity are
bounded by a sum of a linear and quadratic term in the size of a dipole d, when
the latter is in the range of DDA applicability. Moreover, the linear term is
significantly smaller for cubically than for non-cubically shaped scatterers.
Therefore, for small d errors for cubically shaped particles are much smaller
than for non-cubically shaped. The relative importance of the linear term
decreases with increasing size, hence convergence of DDA for large enough
scatterers is quadratic in the common range of d. Extensive numerical
simulations were carried out for a wide range of d. Finally we discuss a number
of new developments in DDA and their consequences for convergence.
  This is a supplement to the paper arXiv:q-bio/0701050, containing the text of
correspondence sent to Nature in 1990.
  We propose an extrapolation technique that allows accuracy improvement of the
discrete dipole approximation computations. The performance of this technique
was studied empirically based on extensive simulations for 5 test cases using
many different discretizations. The quality of the extrapolation improves with
refining discretization reaching extraordinary performance especially for
cubically shaped particles. A two order of magnitude decrease of error was
demonstrated. We also propose estimates of the extrapolation error, which were
proven to be reliable. Finally we propose a simple method to directly separate
shape and discretization errors and illustrated this for one test case.
  The multisite phosphorylation-dephosphorylation cycle is a motif repeatedly
used in cell signaling. This motif itself can generate a variety of dynamic
behaviors like bistability and ultrasensitivity without direct positive
feedbacks. In this paper, we study the number of positive steady states of a
general multisite phosphorylation-dephosphorylation cycle, and how the number
of positive steady states varies by changing the biological parameters. We show
analytically that (1) for some parameter ranges, there are at least n+1 (if n
is even) or n (if n is odd) steady states; (2) there never are more than 2n-1
steady states (in particular, this implies that for n=2, including single
levels of MAPK cascades, there are at most three steady states); (3) for
parameters near the standard Michaelis-Menten quasi-steady state conditions,
there are at most n+1 steady states; and (4) for parameters far from the
standard Michaelis-Menten quasi-steady state conditions, there is at most one
steady state.
  In this manuscript we investigate the capabilities of the Discrete Dipole
Approximation (DDA) to simulate scattering from particles that are much larger
than the wavelength of the incident light, and describe an optimized publicly
available DDA computer program that processes the large number of dipoles
required for such simulations. Numerical simulations of light scattering by
spheres with size parameters x up to 160 and 40 for refractive index m=1.05 and
2 respectively are presented and compared with exact results of the Mie theory.
Errors of both integral and angle-resolved scattering quantities generally
increase with m and show no systematic dependence on x. Computational times
increase steeply with both x and m, reaching values of more than 2 weeks on a
cluster of 64 processors. The main distinctive feature of the computer program
is the ability to parallelize a single DDA simulation over a cluster of
computers, which allows it to simulate light scattering by very large
particles, like the ones that are considered in this manuscript. Current
limitations and possible ways for improvement are discussed.
 We present a theoretical framework for plasma turbulence in astrophysical
plasmas (solar wind, interstellar medium, galaxy clusters, accretion disks).
The key assumptions are that the turbulence is anisotropic with respect to the
mean magnetic field and frequencies are low compared to the ion cyclotron
frequency. The energy injected at the outer scale scale has to be converted
into heat, which ultimately cannot be done without collisions. A KINETIC
CASCADE develops that brings the energy to collisional scales both in space and
velocity. Its nature depends on the physics of plasma fluctuations. In each of
the physically distinct scale ranges, the kinetic problem is systematically
reduced to a more tractable set of equations. In the "inertial range" above the
ion gyroscale, the kinetic cascade splits into a cascade of Alfvenic
fluctuations, which are governed by the RMHD equations at both the collisional
and collisionless scales, and a passive cascade of compressive fluctuations,
which obey a linear kinetic equation along the moving field lines associated
with the Alfvenic component. In the "dissipation range" between the ion and
electron gyroscales, there are again two cascades: the kinetic-Alfven-wave
(KAW) cascade governed by two fluid-like Electron RMHD equations and a passive
phase-space cascade of ion entropy fluctuations. The latter cascade brings the
energy of the inertial-range fluctuations that was damped by collisionless
wave-particle interaction at the ion gyroscale to collisional scales in the
phase space and leads to ion heating. The KAW energy is similarly damped at the
electron gyroscale and converted into electron heat. Kolmogorov-style scaling
relations are derived for these cascades. Astrophysical and space-physical
applications are discussed in detail.
  This paper considers the propagation of shallow-water solitary and nonlinear
periodic waves over a gradual slope with bottom friction in the framework of a
variable-coefficient Korteweg-de Vries equation. We use the Whitham averaging
method, using a recent development of this theory for perturbed integrable
equations. This general approach enables us not only to improve known results
on the adiabatic evolution of isolated solitary waves and periodic wave trains
in the presence of variable topography and bottom friction, modeled by the
Chezy law, but also importantly, to study the effects of these factors on the
propagation of undular bores, which are essentially unsteady in the system
under consideration. In particular, it is shown that the combined action of
variable topography and bottom friction generally imposes certain global
restrictions on the undular bore propagation so that the evolution of the
leading solitary wave can be substantially different from that of an isolated
solitary wave with the same initial amplitude. This non-local effect is due to
nonlinear wave interactions within the undular bore and can lead to an
additional solitary wave amplitude growth, which cannot be predicted in the
framework of the traditional adiabatic approach to the propagation of solitary
waves in slowly varying media.
  In a quantum mechanical model, Diosi, Feldmann and Kosloff arrived at a
conjecture stating that the limit of the entropy of certain mixtures is the
relative entropy as system size goes to infinity. The conjecture is proven in
this paper for density matrices. The first proof is analytic and uses the
quantum law of large numbers. The second one clarifies the relation to channel
capacity per unit cost for classical-quantum channels. Both proofs lead to
generalization of the conjecture.
  The intelligent acoustic emission locator is described in Part I, while Part
II discusses blind source separation, time delay estimation and location of two
simultaneously active continuous acoustic emission sources.
  The location of acoustic emission on complicated aircraft frame structures is
a difficult problem of non-destructive testing. This article describes an
intelligent acoustic emission source locator. The intelligent locator comprises
a sensor antenna and a general regression neural network, which solves the
location problem based on learning from examples. Locator performance was
tested on different test specimens. Tests have shown that the accuracy of
location depends on sound velocity and attenuation in the specimen, the
dimensions of the tested area, and the properties of stored data. The location
accuracy achieved by the intelligent locator is comparable to that obtained by
the conventional triangulation method, while the applicability of the
intelligent locator is more general since analysis of sonic ray paths is
avoided. This is a promising method for non-destructive testing of aircraft
frame structures by the acoustic emission method.
  We report on the analysis of selected single source data sets from the first
round of the Mock LISA Data Challenges (MLDC) for white dwarf binaries. We
implemented an end-to-end pipeline consisting of a grid-based coherent
pre-processing unit for signal detection, and an automatic Markov Chain Monte
Carlo post-processing unit for signal evaluation. We demonstrate that signal
detection with our coherent approach is secure and accurate, and is increased
in accuracy and supplemented with additional information on the signal
parameters by our Markov Chain Monte Carlo approach. We also demonstrate that
the Markov Chain Monte Carlo routine is additionally able to determine
accurately the noise level in the frequency window of interest.
  We present an algorithm that produces the classification list of smooth Fano
d-polytopes for any given d. The input of the algorithm is a single number,
namely the positive integer d. The algorithm has been used to classify smooth
Fano d-polytopes for d<=7. There are 7622 isomorphism classes of smooth Fano
6-polytopes and 72256 isomorphism classes of smooth Fano 7-polytopes.
  Part I describes an intelligent acoustic emission locator, while Part II
discusses blind source separation, time delay estimation and location of two
continuous acoustic emission sources.
  Acoustic emission (AE) analysis is used for characterization and location of
developing defects in materials. AE sources often generate a mixture of various
statistically independent signals. A difficult problem of AE analysis is
separation and characterization of signal components when the signals from
various sources and the mode of mixing are unknown. Recently, blind source
separation (BSS) by independent component analysis (ICA) has been used to solve
these problems. The purpose of this paper is to demonstrate the applicability
of ICA to locate two independent simultaneously active acoustic emission
sources on an aluminum band specimen. The method is promising for
non-destructive testing of aircraft frame structures by acoustic emission
analysis.
  A novel way of picturing the processing of quantum information is described,
allowing a direct visualization of teleportation of quantum states and
providing a simple and intuitive understanding of this fascinating phenomenon.
The discussion is aimed at providing physicists a method of explaining
teleportation to non-scientists. The basic ideas of quantum physics are first
explained in lay terms, after which these ideas are used with a graphical
description, out of which teleportation arises naturally.
  We study space-time symmetries in scalar quantum field theory (including
interacting theories) on static space-times. We first consider Euclidean
quantum field theory on a static Riemannian manifold, and show that the
isometry group is generated by one-parameter subgroups which have either
self-adjoint or unitary quantizations. We analytically continue the
self-adjoint semigroups to one-parameter unitary groups, and thus construct a
unitary representation of the isometry group of the associated Lorentzian
manifold. The method is illustrated for the example of hyperbolic space, whose
Lorentzian continuation is Anti-de Sitter space.
 We study a simple model of a nematic liquid crystal made of parallel
ellipsoidal particles interacting via a repulsive Gaussian law. After
identifying the relevant solid phases of the system through a careful
zero-temperature scrutiny of as many as eleven candidate crystal structures, we
determine the melting temperature for various pressure values, also with the
help of exact free energy calculations. Among the prominent features of this
model are pressure-driven reentrant melting and the stabilization of a columnar
phase for intermediate temperatures.
  We study the interplay of crystal field splitting and Hund coupling in a
two-orbital model which captures the essential physics of systems with two
electrons or holes in the e_g shell. We use single site dynamical mean field
theory with a recently developed impurity solver which is able to access strong
couplings and low temperatures. The fillings of the orbitals and the location
of phase boundaries are computed as a function of Coulomb repulsion, exchange
coupling and crystal field splitting. We find that the Hund coupling can drive
the system into a novel Mott insulating phase with vanishing orbital
susceptibility. Away from half-filling, the crystal field splitting can induce
an orbital selective Mott state.
  I shall present three arguments for the proposition that intelligent life is
very rare in the universe. First, I shall summarize the consensus opinion of
the founders of the Modern Synthesis (Simpson, Dobzhanski, and Mayr) that the
evolution of intelligent life is exceedingly improbable. Second, I shall
develop the Fermi Paradox: if they existed they'd be here. Third, I shall show
that if intelligent life were too common, it would use up all available
resources and die out. But I shall show that the quantum mechanical principle
of unitarity (actually a form of teleology!) requires intelligent life to
survive to the end of time. Finally, I shall argue that, if the universe is
indeed accelerating, then survival to the end of time requires that intelligent
life, though rare, to have evolved several times in the visible universe. I
shall argue that the acceleration is a consequence of the excess of matter over
antimatter in the universe. I shall suggest experiments to test these claims.
Neutrinoless double beta decay is one of the most sensitive approaches in
non-accelerator particle physics to take us into a regime of physics beyond the
standard model. This article is a brief review of the experiments in search of
neutrinoless double beta decay from 76Ge. Following a brief introduction of the
process of double beta decay from 76Ge, the results of the very first
experiments IGEX and Heidelberg-Moscow which give indications of the existence
of possible neutrinoless double beta decay mode has been reviewed. Then ongoing
efforts to substantiate the early findings are presented and the Majorana
experiment as a future experimental approach which will allow a very detailed
study of the neutrinoless decay mode is discussed.
e introduce a family of rings of symmetric functions depending on an
infinite sequence of parameters. A distinguished basis of such a ring is
comprised by analogues of the Schur functions. The corresponding structure
coefficients are polynomials in the parameters which we call the
Littlewood-Richardson polynomials. We give a combinatorial rule for their
calculation by modifying an earlier result of B. Sagan and the author. The new
rule provides a formula for these polynomials which is manifestly positive in
the sense of W. Graham. We apply this formula for the calculation of the
product of equivariant Schubert classes on Grassmannians which implies a
stability property of the structure coefficients. The first manifestly positive
formula for such an expansion was given by A. Knutson and T. Tao by using
combinatorics of puzzles while the stability property was not apparent from
that formula. We also use the Littlewood-Richardson polynomials to describe the
multiplication rule in the algebra of the Casimir elements for the general
linear Lie algebra in the basis of the quantum immanants constructed by A.
Okounkov and G. Olshanski.
  Possible (algebraic) commutation relations in the Lagrangian quantum theory
of free (scalar, spinor and vector) fields are considered from mathematical
view-point. As sources of these relations are employed the Heisenberg
equations/relations for the dynamical variables and a specific condition for
uniqueness of the operators of the dynamical variables (with respect to some
class of Lagrangians). The paracommutation relations or some their
generalizations are pointed as the most general ones that entail the validity
of all Heisenberg equations. The simultaneous fulfillment of the Heisenberg
equations and the uniqueness requirement turn to be impossible. This problem is
solved via a redefinition of the dynamical variables, similar to the normal
ordering procedure and containing it as a special case. That implies
corresponding changes in the admissible commutation relations. The introduction
of the concept of the vacuum makes narrow the class of the possible commutation
relations; in particular, the mentioned redefinition of the dynamical variables
is reduced to normal ordering. As a last restriction on that class is imposed
the requirement for existing of an effective procedure for calculating vacuum
mean values. The standard bilinear commutation relations are pointed as the
only known ones that satisfy all of the mentioned conditions and do not
contradict to the existing data.
  Epitaxial self-assembled quantum dots (SAQDs) are of interest for
nanostructured optoelectronic and electronic devices such as lasers,
photodetectors and nanoscale logic. Spatial order and size order of SAQDs are
important to the development of usable devices. It is likely that these two
types of order are strongly linked; thus, a study of spatial order will also
have strong implications for size order. Here a study of spatial order is
undertaken using a linear analysis of a commonly used model of SAQD formation
based on surface diffusion. Analytic formulas for film-height correlation
functions are found that characterize quantum dot spatial order and
corresponding correlation lengths that quantify order. Initial atomic-scale
random fluctuations result in relatively small correlation lengths (about two
dots) when the effect of a wetting potential is negligible; however, the
correlation lengths diverge when SAQDs are allowed to form at a near-critical
film height. The present work reinforces previous findings about anisotropy and
SAQD order and presents as explicit and transparent mechanism for ordering with
corresponding analytic equations. In addition, SAQD formation is by its nature
a stochastic process, and various mathematical aspects regarding statistical
analysis of SAQD formation and order are presented.
We discuss a universality property of any covariant field theory in
space-time expanded around pp-wave backgrounds. According to this property the
space-time lagrangian density evaluated on a restricted set of field
configurations, called universal sector, turns out to be same around all the
pp-waves, even off-shell, with same transverse space and same profiles for the
background scalars. In this paper we restrict our discussion to tensorial
fields only. In the context of bosonic string theory we consider on-shell
pp-waves and argue that universality requires the existence of a universal
sector of world-sheet operators whose correlation functions are insensitive to
the pp-wave nature of the metric and the background gauge flux. Such results
can also be reproduced using the world-sheet conformal field theory. We also
study such pp-waves in non-polynomial closed string field theory (CSFT). In
particular, we argue that for an off-shell pp-wave ansatz with flat transverse
space and dilaton independent of transverse coordinates the field redefinition
relating the low energy effective field theory and CSFT with all the massive
modes integrated out is at most quadratic in fields. Because of this
simplification it is expected that the off-shell pp-waves can be identified on
the two sides. Furthermore, given the massless pp-wave field configurations, an
iterative method for computing the higher massive modes using the CSFT
equations of motion has been discussed. All our bosonic string theory analyses
can be generalised to the common Neveu-Schwarz sector of superstrings.
Statistical modeling of experimental physical laws is based on the
probability density function of measured variables. It is expressed by
experimental data via a kernel estimator. The kernel is determined objectively
by the scattering of data during calibration of experimental setup. A physical
law, which relates measured variables, is optimally extracted from experimental
data by the conditional average estimator. It is derived directly from the
kernel estimator and corresponds to a general nonparametric regression. The
proposed method is demonstrated by the modeling of a return map of noisy
chaotic data. In this example, the nonparametric regression is used to predict
a future value of chaotic time series from the present one. The mean predictor
error is used in the definition of predictor quality, while the redundancy is
expressed by the mean square distance between data points. Both statistics are
used in a new definition of predictor cost function. From the minimum of the
predictor cost function, a proper number of data in the model is estimated.
  Real Options for Project Schedules (ROPS) has three recursive
sampling/optimization shells. An outer Adaptive Simulated Annealing (ASA)
optimization shell optimizes parameters of strategic Plans containing multiple
Projects containing ordered Tasks. A middle shell samples probability
distributions of durations of Tasks. An inner shell samples probability
distributions of costs of Tasks. PATHTREE is used to develop options on
schedules.. Algorithms used for Trading in Risk Dimensions (TRD) are applied to
develop a relative risk analysis among projects.
  We combine classical methods of combinatorial group theory with the theory of
small cancellations over relatively hyperbolic groups to construct finitely
generated torsion-free groups that have only finitely many classes of conjugate
elements. Moreover, we present several results concerning embeddings into such
groups.
  As another application of these techniques, we prove that every countable
group $C$ can be realized as a group of outer automorphisms of a group $N$,
where $N$ is a finitely generated group having Kazhdan's property (T) and
containing exactly two conjugacy classes.
  We study a recently proposed formulation of overlap fermions at finite
density. In particular we compute the energy density as a function of the
chemical potential and the temperature. It is shown that overlap fermions with
chemical potential reproduce the correct continuum behavior.
 In this note we present three representations of a 248-dimensional Lie
algebra, namely the algebra of Lie point symmetries admitted by a system of
five trivial ordinary differential equations each of order forty-four, that
admitted by a system of seven trivial ordinary differential equations each of
order twenty-eight and that admitted by one trivial ordinary differential
equation of order two hundred and forty-four.
  We review recent progress in operator algebraic approach to conformal quantum
field theory. Our emphasis is on use of representation theory in classification
theory. This is based on a series of joint works with R. Longo.
  Sparse Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA), a variation on the standard CDMA
method in which the spreading (signature) matrix contains only a relatively
small number of non-zero elements, is presented and analysed using methods of
statistical physics. The analysis provides results on the performance of
maximum likelihood decoding for sparse spreading codes in the large system
limit. We present results for both cases of regular and irregular spreading
matrices for the binary additive white Gaussian noise channel (BIAWGN) with a
comparison to the canonical (dense) random spreading code.
 In the course of this work, we introduce the novel notion of $Y$-dominated
majorisation between the spectra of two Hermitian matrices, where $Y$ is itself
a Hermitian matrix, and prove a certain property of this relation that allows
to strengthen the results of Bourin-Uchiyama and Kosem, mentioned above.
  The topological structure of the event horizon has been investigated in terms
of the Morse theory. The elementary process of topological evolution can be
understood as a handle attachment. It has been found that there are certain
constraints on the nature of black hole topological evolution: (i) There are n
kinds of handle attachments in (n+1)-dimensional black hole space-times. (ii)
Handles are further classified as either of black or white type, and only black
handles appear in real black hole space-times. (iii) The spatial section of an
exterior of the black hole region is always connected. As a corollary, it is
shown that the formation of a black hole with an S**(n-2) x S**1 horizon from
that with an S**(n-1) horizon must be non-axisymmetric in asymptotically flat
space-times.
  In this contribution we go through the developments that in the years 1968 to
1974 led from the Veneziano model to the bosonic string.
  A physical law is represented by the probability distribution of a measured
variable. The probability density is described by measured data using an
estimator whose kernel is the instrument scattering function. The experimental
information and data redundancy are defined in terms of information entropy.
The model cost function, comprised of data redundancy and estimation error, is
minimized by the creation-annihilation process.
  Description of a polynomial time reduction of SAT to 2-SAT of polynomial
size.
  From first-principles calculations, we predict that transition metal (TM)
atom doped silicon nanowires have a half-metallic ground state. They are
insulators for one spin-direction, but show metallic properties for the
opposite spin direction. At high coverage of TM atoms, ferromagnetic silicon
nanowires become metallic for both spin-directions with high magnetic moment
and may have also significant spin-polarization at the Fermi level. The
spin-dependent electronic properties can be engineered by changing the type of
dopant TM atoms, as well as the diameter of the nanowire. Present results are
not only of scientific interest, but can also initiate new research on
spintronic applications of silicon nanowires.
Zero-divisors (ZDs) derived by Cayley-Dickson Process (CDP) from
N-dimensional hypercomplex numbers (N a power of 2, at least 4) can represent
singularities and, as N approaches infinite, fractals -- and thereby,scale-free
networks. Any integer greater than 8 and not a power of 2 generates a
meta-fractal or "Sky" when it is interpreted as the "strut constant" (S) of an
ensemble of octahedral vertex figures called "Box-Kites" (the fundamental
building blocks of ZDs). Remarkably simple bit-manipulation rules or "recipes"
provide tools for transforming one fractal genus into others within the context
of Wolfram's Class 4 complexity.
  Single walled carbon nanotubes exhibit advanced electrical and surface
properties useful for high performance nanoelectronics. Important to future
manufacturing of nanotube circuits is large scale assembly of SWNTs into
aligned forms. Despite progress in assembly and oriented synthesis, pristine
SWNTs in aligned and close-packed form remain elusive and needed for high
current, speed and density devices through collective operations of parallel
SWNTs. Here, we develop a Langmuir Blodgett method achieving monolayers of
aligned SWNTs with dense packing, central to which is a non covalent polymer
functionalization by PmPV imparting high solubility and stability of SWNTs in
an organic solvent DCE. Pressure cycling or annealing during LB film
compression reduces hysteresis and facilitates high degree alignment and
packing of SWNTs characterized by microscopy and polarized Raman spectroscopy.
The monolayer SWNTs are readily patterned for device integration by
microfabrication, enabling the highest currents 3mA through the narrowest
regions packed with aligned SWNTs thus far.
  This model undergoes a quantum phase transition from a spontaneously
dimerized phase to Neel order at a critical coupling. We show that as the
critical point is approached from the dimerized side, the system exhibits
strong fluctuations in the dimer background, reflected in the presence of a
low-energy singlet mode, with a simultaneous rise in the triplet quasiparticle
density. We find that both singlet and triplet modes of high density condense
at the transition, signaling restoration of lattice symmetry. In our approach,
which goes beyond mean-field theory in terms of the triplet excitations, the
transition appears sharp; however since our method breaks down near the
critical point, we argue that we cannot make a definite conclusion regarding
the order of the transition.
We consider a single ion confined in a trap under radiation of two traveling
waves of lasers. In the strong-excitation regime and without the restriction of
Lamb-Dicke limit, the Hamiltonian of the system is similar to a driving
Jaynes-Cummings model without rotating wave approximation (RWA). The approach
we developed enables us to present a complete eigensolutions, which makes it
available to compare with the solutions under the RWA. We find that, the ground
state in our non-RWA solution is energically lower than the counterpart under
the RWA. If we have the ion in the ground state, it is equivalent to a spin
dependent force on the trapped ion. Discussion is made for the difference
between the solutions with and without the RWA, and for the relevant
experimental test, as well as for the possible application in quantum
information processing.
  We report on the layer-by-layer growth of single-crystal Al2O3 thin-films on
Nb (110). Single-crystal Nb films are first prepared on A-plane sapphire,
followed by the evaporation of Al in an O2 background. The first stages of
Al2O3 growth are layer-by-layer with hexagonal symmetry. Electron and x-ray
diffraction measurements indicate the Al2O3 initially grows clamped to the Nb
lattice with a tensile strain near 10%. This strain relaxes with further
deposition, and beyond about 5 nm we observe the onset of island growth.
Despite the asymmetric misfit between the Al2O3 film and the Nb under-layer,
the observed strain is surprisingly isotropic.
Sub-100 nm nanomagnets not only are technologically important, but also
exhibit complex magnetization reversal behaviors as their dimensions are
comparable to typical magnetic domain wall widths. Here we capture magnetic
"fingerprints" of 1 billion Fe nanodots as they undergo a single domain to
vortex state transition, using a first-order reversal curve (FORC) method. As
the nanodot size increases from 52 nm to 67 nm, the FORC diagrams reveal
striking differences, despite only subtle changes in their major hysteresis
loops. The 52 nm nanodots exhibit single domain behavior and the coercivity
distribution extracted from the FORC distribution agrees well with a
calculation based on the measured nanodot size distribution. The 58 and 67 nm
nanodots exhibit vortex states, where the nucleation and annihilation of the
vortices are manifested as butterfly-like features in the FORC distribution and
confirmed by micromagnetic simulations. Furthermore, the FORC method gives
quantitative measures of the magnetic phase fractions, and vortex nucleation
and annihilation fields.
  Context. Swift data are revolutionising our understanding of Gamma Ray
Bursts. Since bursts fade rapidly, it is desirable to create and disseminate
accurate light curves rapidly.
  Aims. To provide the community with an online repository of X-ray light
curves obtained with Swift. The light curves should be of the quality expected
of published data, but automatically created and updated so as to be
self-consistent and rapidly available. Methods. We have produced a suite of
programs which automatically generates Swift/XRT light curves of GRBs. Effects
of the damage to the CCD, automatic readout-mode switching and pile-up are
appropriately handled, and the data are binned with variable bin durations, as
necessary for a fading source.
    Based on overall experimental observations, especially the pair processes, I
developed a model structure of the vacuum along with a basic-particle formation
scheme begun in 2000 (with collaborator P-I Johansson). The model consists in
that the vacuum is, briefly, filled of neutral but polarizable vacuuons,
consisting each of a p-vaculeon and n- vaculeon of charges $+e$ and $-e$ of
zero rest masses but with spin motions, assumed interacting each other with a
Coulomb force. The model has been introduced in full in a book (Nova Sci, 2005)
and referred to in a number of journal/E-print papers. I outline in this easier
accessible paper the detailed derivation of the model and a corresponding
quantitative determination of the vacuuon size.
  We study the interaction between two adjacent but electrically isolated
quantum point contacts (QPCs). At high enough source-drain bias on one QPC, the
drive QPC, we detect a finite electric current in the second, unbiased,
detector QPC. The current generated at the detector QPC always flows in the
opposite direction than the current of the drive QPC. The generated current is
maximal, if the detector QPC is tuned to a transition region between its
quantized conductance plateaus and the drive QPC is almost pinched-off. We
interpret this counterflow phenomenon in terms of an asymmetric phonon-induced
excitation of electrons in the leads of the detector QPC.
  We report the first detection of the 6.2micron and 7.7micron infrared `PAH'
emission features in the spectrum of a high redshift QSO, from the Spitzer-IRS
spectrum of the Cloverleaf lensed QSO (H1413+117, z~2.56). The ratio of PAH
features and rest frame far-infrared emission is the same as in lower
luminosity star forming ultraluminous infrared galaxies and in local PG QSOs,
supporting a predominantly starburst nature of the Cloverleaf's huge
far-infrared luminosity (5.4E12 Lsun, corrected for lensing). The Cloverleaf's
period of dominant QSO activity (Lbol ~ 7E13 Lsun) is coincident with an
intense (star formation rate ~1000 Msun/yr) and short (gas exhaustion time
~3E7yr) star forming event.
  In 2nd order causal dissipative theory, space-time evolution of QGP fluid is
studied in 2+1 dimensions. Relaxation equations for shear stress tensors are
solved simultaneously with the energy-momentum conservation equations.
Comparison of evolution of ideal and viscous QGP fluid, initialized under the
same conditions, e.g. same equilibration time, energy density and velocity
profile, indicate that in a viscous dynamics, energy density or temperature of
the fluid evolve slowly, than in an ideal fluid. Cooling gets slower as
viscosity increases. Transverse expansion also increases in a viscous dynamics.
For the first time we have also studied elliptic flow of 'quarks' in causal
viscous dynamics. It is shown that elliptic flow of quarks saturates due to
non-equilibrium correction to equilibrium distribution function, and can not be
mimicked by an ideal hydrodynamics.
  We show how a single trapped ion may be used to test a variety of important
physical models realized as time-dependent harmonic oscillators. The ion itself
functions as its own motional detector through laser-induced electronic
transitions. Alsing et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 94, 220401 (2005)] proposed that
an exponentially decaying trap frequency could be used to simulate (thermal)
Gibbons-Hawking radiation in an expanding universe, but the Hamiltonian used
was incorrect. We apply our general solution to this experimental proposal,
correcting the result for a single ion and showing that while the actual
spectrum is different from the Gibbons-Hawking case, it nevertheless shares an
important experimental signature with this result.
  The 32-dimensional compounding fields and their quantum interplays in the
trigintaduonion space can be presented by analogy with octonion and sedenion
electromagnetic, gravitational, strong and weak interactions. In the
trigintaduonion fields which are associated with the electromagnetic,
gravitational, strong and weak interactions, the study deduces some conclusions
of field source particles (quarks and leptons) and intermediate particles which
are consistent with current some sorts of interaction theories. In the
trigintaduonion fields which are associated with the hyper-strong and
strong-weak fields, the paper draws some predicts and conclusions of the field
source particles (sub-quarks) and intermediate particles. The research results
show that there may exist some new particles in the nature.
